Well, here we are again
for our third discussion.
And we tentatively gave the topic
for our-- this discussion limitless time,
because we now want to bridge and-- into
the deeper questions
surrounding reincarnation,
the deeper perspective.
Where is reincarnation taking humanity?
Where is this constantly learning
and recycling and recycling,
creating new and new platforms
in our incarnational experience
- where is it going?
Where is it taking us?
What might the deep future look like?
And, most importantly,
how might that understanding shift how we
engage our life right here, right now?
Yeah. Very deep
questions to follow.
Where should we begin?
Well, we should-- I think we should
acknowledge that each of us have
a deep, experiential basis that we're
kind of bringing to this discussion.
We're not simply thinking about it,
philosophising about it
and speculating about it.
We have deep convictions born
out of unusual experiences.
Why don't you speak first?
It's true.
It's why-- it's in a way that's brought us
together around these-- to
do these dialogues, I think.
And I was just explaining to-- you
know, that to discriminate the difference
between knowledge and wisdom.
You know, so, although
we've explored strains of knowledge in
this, wisdom is different from knowledge.
It's the opposite in a way, because,
for me, the way I understand wisdom is
that wisdom comes through revelation.
It comes through listening.
It comes through being
passive and then receiving.
Whereas knowledge is something
that you do opposite.
You go after it,
you chase it, you hunt it,
you know. You're going towards it, instead
of allowing it to come towards you.
And so
you get different
information
through revelation.
And it's not information in the same way.
It's cellular.
You know, so my experience
that's led to me being me, and doing what
I do, is because I have always had this,
you know, cellular understanding, cellular
knowing of what's coming for humanity.
And it's always-- it's quite hard to hold
that - I'm sure you relate to that, Chris.
It's quite hard to hold it because
it's-- not everyone else has it.
And so
it puts you-- it puts me in a-- I'm more
relaxed than most people I know
at a fundamental level, because
I have this knowing
that everything's going to be fine.
And I can't explain that knowing,
or even why it was
given to me to have it.
And I know that many
people listening to this
will have a resonance, and have had
breakthroughs and visions
where that has come to them.
So,
you know-- I think it's really good for us
to acknowledge it, that we carry this
other dimension.
And you obviously through your work,
I mean, tell us a little bit about that.
It would be lovely to hear.
I completely share what you're saying,
because I do carry an unusual knowledge,
as you do. Now, at the beginning of our
series, we talked about
the evidence for reincarnation.
So I was in my professorial mode there.
The intellectual digesting
of this evidence.
And
the middle-- the second conversation was
kind of a blending of that
type of knowledge and the type of wisdom,
that arises in my psychedelic work.
And in today's discussion, I feel like I'm
standing squarely within
that other side of my life.
I'm a visionary shaman.
I'm a psychedelic visionary.
My understanding comes out of the careful
distilling of conscientiously-engaged,
non-ordinary states of consciousness,
again and again and again purifying
and purifying, and allowing the universe
to take me deeper and deeper
into what I experience as into itself
and into its intention - into
time, literally into deep time,
and giving me experiences
which were never intended
to be just for me.
They are planted in me to hold and then
to pass on, as so many of you know, anyone
who has these deep experiences,
you know, they're never just for us.
We hold them for the larger collective.
So I do - like you I have a feeling for
what's happening in history,
where we're going.
And it does tend to--
it gives me a calm and a relaxation,
even as we enter into very difficult
and trying times ahead.
Yeah, I think so.
And I think both you and I have that same
kind of knowing, I suppose,
that birth is
an intense event
and we're coming to a birth point.
You know we're even in the canal,
and contractions are occurring.
And
in the same way that,
you know, I understand
individual awakening,
when awakening
comes into a body,
you know, and it comes spontaneously,
it kind of comes through contractions,
in a sense. So often before
you have an experience,
and a transcendental experience,
there are kind of shudders.
And then there's openings and closings,
there's condensing and intensification
of shadow material.
And then there's a kind of opening up.
And then there's another
birth contraction.
And the contractions come
closer and closer together.
And eventually there's
a deep opening to
an epiphany of some form,
like something that shakes the core
of your being and maybe fires
within your DNA. So that it's something
that just sets you alight
and changes you forever, you know,
when those revelations come.
And so, you know, I think that
that's what's happening
on a planetary level as well.
It's beginning to happen as a collective.
And your writings, Chris,
particularly through
your 'Mind of the Universe', you know,
'Diamonds' book,
it describes so beautifully
this process of,
like, coming into-- coming down
the birth canal.
What it doesn't do, obviously,
and what neither of us can do,
is fill in the details, you know,
and only time can do that.
But
we'd like to give a bit of backdrop and
both empathise with the intensity
of the suffering that is already here,
and is most likely going to be ramped up.
We want to empathise with that.
But at the same time,
we want to present this
knowing that we have
that gives people hope, more than hope,
actually. But it also provides
some hope, doesn't it?
Like, there is a purpose
to the events that are taking place on our
planet right now,
and right now is whenever you're
watching this. You know, because
one can only imagine
more events
occurring as this canal opens up. So
yeah.
Yeah. You described that process
of the in-breaking of the vision
and the being drawn into the deep
experience of revelation. Because,
you know, deep visions, deep insights,
cannot fit themselves
into small containers.
And so when
nature, or the Divine, or the universe,
invites us into a deeper experience,
a more conscious understanding of life,
it has to purify ourselves.
And you described
that contracting process.
And it is our past, it's everything about
us which keeps us small,
being burned up inside us in order to
allow ourselves to be taken, shattered.
In my context, it's the death-rebirth
cycle, to die to everything within us
which holds us where we are,
and to be reborn into a larger world.
And that can happen again and again,
taking us deeper and deeper
into that knowing.
It's like any spiritual path,
there are no shortcuts,
and there's no easy way into this.
It's always a very exacting and a very
demanding road.
But the fruit of that road
is,
well, it's personal, and it's collective,
it expands around us in all sorts
of subtle and mysterious ways.
And we are part of a lineage,
each of us in our own ways,
a lineage of people who have asked
for more, and who have been given more,
and have paid the price
for being given more.
And you're right, this is--
my work started
as thinking of my psychedelic work as kind
of a personal healing, or personal
transformation, or personal awakening,
and that just got shattered
in the first few years.
And everything about my word kept opening
up into collective vistas,
collective spaces, being drawn
into the collective psyche,
going through collective purifications
and opening up into insight about our
collective developmental process.
Experiencing reincarnation not simply as
an individual soul-journey,
but as a species-journey.
It's a journey that our entire
species is on,
evolving itself through the systematic
reincarnation,
generation after generation,
moving forward and then
being given a certain understanding about
-- that this reincarnation process for us
individually, and collectively,
is coming into a crescendo.
It's coming into some type of
profound breakthrough,
and you've languaged it as a 'birth'.
And I think that's absolutely correct.
And birth involves labour, and it involves
a change from one state to another state.
For a child, it's a change from a
water-being to a land-being.
And we are, I think, are growing
from a state of individual
egoic-awareness,
where identity is fundamentally our body
-mind-ego, into a soul-awareness,
where all of our former lives are coming
together in a tremendous fusion point.
As our knowledge of our past deepens,
and as we heal the traumas of our past
that we're all carrying,
and our past lives become more
integrated,
and we integrate not only their pains
but their virtues, their
great assets, their capacities.
And all of this begins to take place.
And it's like our lives come together,
and eventually they hit a fusion point.
And at that point the soul
becomes one, totally,
as I've experienced this,
an explosion of light,
an explosion into a higher order
of individuality,
with a different threshold, a different
sense of communion with the surrounding
intelligence of the universe,
the intelligence of the Divine.
But-- and it's a different-- to me,
if humanity is going through this process,
which I deeply believe it is,
that's what my visions have
shown me, again and again.
It represents a new
foundation
for the human story,
a new phase of the human story. Just as
profound as when we made this jump, about
200,000 years ago, to a brain that's 50%
bigger than the brain that we
were carrying before.
Allowing us to think and do things
that we could never do before.
This is something which is going to change
the fundamental archetypal architecture
of the collective unconscious.
Yeah, beautifully said.
It kind of brings
two things I'd like to say in response,
which are really reiterations
of what you've said.
And the first is
that many people watching this,
if you're drawn to this kind of material,
there's a very good chance
that you have said 'yes'
to receiving, to transmuting
more shadow material, you know,
more than one lifetime's worth.
And I remember those dark days
of my kind of past, in which the shadow--
the level of shadow inside my body
seemed insurmountable,
you know, and seemed
endless.
You know, whenever I would meditate,
I would just find endless weight
and heaviness and oppression.
And, like, so much of it that
it was just this big, thick clot.
And how would I ever,
ever burn through that?
And gradually, over the years,
happily for me, and it's lightened.
And
so I've seen the light
at the end of the tunnel.
And I say this because I know that many
watching this will also have
that experience of
grappling with a weight inside
the physical, emotional reality,
the mental reality, that far outweighs,
you know, the kind of-- the individual
wounding patterns of one life,
you know, whatever they are.
And that's not to kind of,
you know, put them lesser,
but, you know, we've taken on more.
And the reason we've taken on more is
because we are capable of taking on more.
So if you feel that heaviness
and weight in you, it's because
you have the capacity.
The deep, overwhelming,
you know, the love
that's great enough to burn through that.
So I say that to encourage people
to continue on in your transformational
path and not to lose hope.
And the other thing
I wanted to say is, you know,
when you look at
times like this, like birth,
and as you said, there's something
that emerges that is completely new.
When we're looking at life as it is today,
through the lens of history,
we see a continuity.
You know, we see this continuity,
this fairly unbroken continuity,
with blips, and ups and downs,
and cycles repeating,
and we see that through the patterns
of our recorded history.
And
the one thing
we never-- you never see in birth
is you can't see beyond the break,
because at some point there's
a break in the continuity.
And then something completely new is born.
As you said, it's assembled out
of all the elements of the old.
It's condensed, it's revealed from all
those elements coming into a symphony.
And so it's completely different.
It stands on the shoulders of all that,
of all that's great and all that's
been suffering.
And all of that is suddenly
kind of compressed,
like the beginning of the universe.
You know, it was compressed
into this tiny space.
And that's what happens is
this incredible compression.
And then there's this opening,
as you said, an expansion of vast light.
So what I'm pointing towards
is that what's coming
has no similarity to what we have now.
We cannot-- you know with our wildest
imagination, we can begin to approach it,
but you have to-- you know you never
see a break in continuity coming.
You always assume, all of you,
humans, this is our way.
We see that things have
always been this way.
They'll always continue.
Maybe we're going to continue
on this path, and then we'll get robotics
and we'll get technology, and we'll get
this, and then we'll go to the stars.
And, you know, we think in the way
that we've been trained to think,
until one of these crux points comes.
And then it just smashes everything. And,
in a way, a whole new epoch begins,
something completely new
with different technology,
you know, and we're the technology,
you know, we are the technology!
I've been saying this to people, like,
it's inside us.
You know our DNA has capacities,
undreamed-of capacities.
And so I think it's really important
that people grasp that, that what's coming
bears no resemblance
to what has been, you know.
Yes, I completely agree with you.
I mean this is what happens
in a psychedelic session as well.
I mean I-- first, I completely
affirm what you're saying about the weight
and the burden that so many serious
practitioners are experiencing.
I think it's because
there's a lot of their past,
which is past lives' Karma
which they're working and clearing now.
But it's also collective karma, that
great beings, and I think there are many
more hidden saints than we might think,
they have taken on responsibility
for working
on behalf of humanity as a whole,
so that they are engaging darkness
that comes not just from their personal
history or soul history,
but from our collective history.
And we have to get through
this period quickly.
We have to bring about this transformation
or cooperate with this process,
because as every mother knows,
you don't want the foetus to get
stuck in the birth canal.
It's not a good place to be.
We want to keep everything moving through.
And I think that many, many souls
incarnating in this period of history
saw what they were getting into,
knew what they were getting into,
and chose to do this work.
The work of birthing a new
humanity is great work.
And, you're right, it's a discontinuity.
In a session you go deep, deep,
deep into the pain, and it just looks
like it's never, ever, ever going to end.
You can't imagine how this
will ever reconcile itself.
And then there is a breaking point.
There's a point of absolute surrender,
of absolute cost paid.
And then
there is a waking-up, a
waking-up in a new reality which is not an
extension of the old reality in any way.
You can't get to this new reality
by refining, purifying and even
healing the old reality.
It is being catapulted
in something which is a fundamentally
-- a new genre of experience,
a new set of capacities.
In my experience and my sessions,
when I've been taken
deep into the experience of deep-time,
into the deep future,
that's how I have experienced
the course of humanity as well.
That we seem to be
first many, many visions over and over,
and of course my visions,
these are old [inaudible].
I started having these visions in 1991,
so these are pushing 30 years old now,
but a series of visions that we
are coming to a turning point.
The pace of the past
could not be used to measure
the pace of the future. A
turn-- a before-and-after point, that
after this historical transition
we would be operating at a completely
different psycho-spiritual structure.
We would be generating a different
civilisation,
because we would be different beings.
We would not be confined and fragmented
the way we are now. I mean basically
our relationship with nature
that we are experiencing now,
the damage that we've done to nature,
was done by a species operating out
of the egoic level of consciousness,
which is
a fundamentally-- which is a brilliant
level of consciousness.
But it's fragmented.
It's fragmented from each other.
It's fragmented from
foundational-- from the
foundation of life itself.
A species which is operating with a healed
heart and a healed mind,
an open heart that embraces
the great breath of its own
experience and human experience,
and an open mind which is open
to a deeper communion, a deeper taking-in
from higher orders of intelligence,
higher orders of knowing,
such a being
lives in the world differently
than a human being does today.
The soul lives in the world
differently than the ego.
The soul knows that the world that it
leaves is the world
that it's coming back to.
So it takes better care of the world.
The soul knows that its relationships
have a depth of texture and history.
You don't walk away
from any relationships.
And so you take more care
of all of your relationships
and of all the people in that too,
because this is an ongoing
developmental process.
And I think we are coming
into a point where
the irony is
life is not giving us any option
except to go through this transition.
There's no going back.
The Earth is not going to allow us.
We've done so much damage to it.
This damage is coming up to us now.
We cannot continue living,
even in a simplified version
of how we have gotten here.
We have to reach into something
entirely new, something radically new.
And I think you're right,
that this is happening on the outside,
and we are being called to a new
relationship to the Earth on the outside,
but we are carrying within our hearts
all the problems that have
gotten here-- gotten us here.
And we are carrying all the values,
and the potentials, and the insights
which are taking us beyond this
into a different order. It's all
inside.
You and I focus our work
on the inside dance.
There are other people whose work is
to focus on the outside dance,
to bring out the changes in the outer
world to get us through.
All are needed.
So true and, you know, beautifully put,
and the inner transformation that you just
described-- I mean, one thing that
I'm reminded of,
those, if you know-- if anyone's
seen or is familiar with any
of Shakespeare's plays, particularly
the comedies and the tragi-comedies,
you know, like in some of those plays
everything that can go wrong goes wrong.
And the wrong people fall in love
with the wrong people.
The-- everything gets twisted round.
It's like one of those nightmares where
it's just, like-- and you've got to act
four, and usually there's five acts,
and it's still a complete mess.
And your-- and as-- in the audience
you're going, 'Oh, my God.
How is this ever going to be resolved?'
And then he does this magical thing,
where suddenly there's a kind of strange
attractor that comes in, some force,
or some event,
that just suddenly triggers all these,
like, sub-events that makes everyone
end up with the right person.
And everything just gets healed
and is 'happily-ever-after' story.
But it happens very quickly,
you know, always right
compressed in the last moment.
And in a way it's a bit similar,
our time, because we've
had this long, slow,
you know, build-up to create
this mess.
And then there's this sudden kind of,
you know, cataclysmic
energy at the end,
that then just-- in which you could never
quite see how these things
are all going to be resolved.
But they get resolved, and in a completely
different way from what
we-- you were expecting.
So, you know, I-- and one of the things
that you've spoken of a lot, Chris,
is the speed at which things happen.
And we can see that in natural systems,
you can just see it in water boiling.
It's the most obvious one, perhaps.
You look at the water and nothing seems
to be happening, and nothing
seems to be happening.
And you put more and more and more heat
into it, and then some
bubbles start to appear,
just the first little pricks
of bubbles on the surface.
And then, of course, suddenly,
when it hits that one
boiling point, everything just erupts.
And you have steam, you know.
And this water starts
to just change its state.
And it's such a simple metaphor.
But it's so true
throughout the whole of nature.
And if you look at the whole
of humanity and history, you know,
in a way
that's what those-- that's a period
that's a-- that we're reaching.
And we'll begin to see that more and more.
And the scientists
are pointing to those things,
like the ocean, for example,
is capturing a huge amount of CO2,
and it's called 'the sink'.
You know, it's just-- it's sinking
down deep into the deep ocean
where that CO2 is being stored.
And it's slowly building up, and building
up, and building up until the ocean
will be able to no longer
capture any more CO2.
And from that point onwards, and
it's allegedly already occurred,
it weakens. Its ability to store CO2
weakens and therefore
all the CO2 that we're creating
suddenly explodes into the atmosphere.
And it looks like we've
been in this hiatus,
you know, and we have because there's
this illusion that we've been okay.
And then suddenly everything speeds up
much more quickly than
anyone could possibly
have conceived,
except some of the scientists
who really know that,
who've really analysed the data deeply.
And also,
you know, cross-- people who work across
multiple fields,
you know, systems theorists and people
who really see the interconnectivity
of different systems can see the whole.
And, of course, mystics, like us.
So there are
many who are, kind of,
predicting very, very quick
change that can be very
destabilising for this planet.
And I know you--
I'd love to hear what you saying
-- what I want to say about this but--
and we don't say to alarm, but to prepare.
Because it goes alongside
the inner awakening.
As the inner birth takes place,
something on the outside,
the structure, has to
decline, it has to fall away in order for
this new [waves hands] to come through.
It's a universal law,
and it's essential, you know, as you said,
we can't repair the old system.
That doesn't mean we shouldn't try
and repair the old system.
Because there can be one,
you know, hearing all this, you can think,
'Well, I'm not going to do anything then,
I'm just going to sit here.'
And that's an understandable
response, and yet it's not
a truly compassionate response,
you know, because
compassion also involves passion,
and we need to stand up for
what's right, and for justice,
and what else-- what is
the purpose of being here?
So we need to continue
forwards and use our passion wherever
we are called to do so.
That's part of our responsibility,
and that's part of what it
means to be an awakening being.
And yet at the same time, we can have this
other part of us that knows, 'Well,
I'm going to do whatever I can
while this is collapsing.
You know, I'm going to give-- I'm going to
serve in the best way I possibly can.'
And that's how you know that you will
always be in the right place,
you'll always be in a safe place.
And when I say 'safe', I mean
safe in the sense that you're aligned with
the core of your soul and its destiny.
That's a safe place to be.
Yeah, that place of alignment,
yeah. You know the way
that speeding-up process
worked itself out in my sessions,
and it had to do with understanding
the field dynamics of consciousness.
I have just enough understanding of chaos
theory and non-equilibrium systems to have
a rudimentary understanding of what
physicists, or chaoticians
understand - when the system gets more
and more energy poured into it,
it reaches a state of non
-equilibrium or far-from-equilibrium.
And when it's in that condition like
the water, which is getting more and more
energy poured into it, or a bathtub when
you keep increasing the quantity of water
that's going into the tub,
and the ripples get-- they start to change,
we come to a tripping point-- a tipping
point, a bifurcation point,
where the system has too much energy
to maintain its current structures,
and it does a flip into a different
organisational pattern.
It goes through this bifurcation point,
it chooses a different future.
It flips into a higher
organisational pattern.
And when physical systems
reach non-equilibrium points,
they can do extraordinary things.
They can produce new particles.
They can produce orders of coherence
within themselves that would have been
impossible at a lower energy state.
In my visionary experiences,
I was given to see that all of humanity,
we are all fractal nodes within unified
field, a field of consciousness,
the human unconscious, the collective
unconscious is a field, and it is
an energetic field which reflects
all of our individual experiences.
And when enough
individual experiences become untenable,
when they become so painful, we just
reach out in desperation
for a different solution to the situation
- it's not just we individually are going
through this type of ordeal
of transformation,
but all of us collectively.
We've never had anything happen in history
which is comparable
to what's coming at us now.
Because when we've had hurricanes or great
natural disasters, they've always affected
one part of the world,
but not the other part of the world.
But the global systems crisis that seems
to be imminent, being driven by a global
ecological crisis,
is going to affect all continents,
all people, all places.
That's going to push humanity
into a different experiential field.
And the point here is that the collective
psyche is going to be energised
by all of this disruption.
It literally is going to begin to boil
underneath us, underneath our
individual minds.
And my understanding
of what's happening is
that in evolution there are, kind of,
multiple levels of evolution, at least,
say, two levels of evolution.
We and I are being born
over and over again.
We're born for 100 years at a time -
we live 100 years, 100 years.
But underneath those 100 year cycles,
there is a learning taking place, there is
a developmental process taking place.
We usually refer to this as the soul.
So the individual ego incarnates,
but the soul is growing, becoming more,
becoming more, suffusing our lives.
But the same thing happens collectively.
Every generation, every generation,
billions and billions of people are being
born, but there is a learning
gathering underneath them,
that is collecting all of their learning
in these deep, deep,
collective archetypal structures.
That's what's coming to boil,
not just our individual incarnation,
but that underlying structures
coming into a high energy state.
And I think it's coming to a state where
the sheer energy of our suffering,
the energy of our despair,
or the energy of our anxiety,
is driving us to a breaking point
where suddenly we're going to be flooded
with a different kind of common sense,
a different common sense,
a different set of priorities,
a different set of values,
a different experience of each other.
The only way I think that we can
go as far as we need to go in order
to save ourselves, and the planet
in as little time as we have,
is to understand
the dynamics of the collective
unconscious,
the field-dynamics of consciousness and
that-- how fields operate
in non-equilibrium systems.
At least this is what
has come through my visionary experience,
over and over,
that we are coming to a point where
there is a crisis which builds
in intensity, until it looks like
all is lost.
So much disruption,
so much loss of control,
so much
death, challenged at a very deep level.
But when it's at its worst
it begins to pass.
We pick ourselves up.
We somehow rise to the
challenge of this crisis.
And in rising to the challenge,
we are changed, we are profoundly changed,
such that as we
become-- start to come out of this period
of history, we find that what our nature,
the nature that we are carrying,
its not just a different set of attitudes,
not just a different set of beliefs,
but a fundamental-- a fundamentally new
way of being conscious.
A new organisation of our
consciousness emerges.
Something has shifted in place.
And we find that things which
were not easy are suddenly easy.
Things which are out of reach
are suddenly within reach.
Possibilities are emerging much faster
than we would have ever predicted.
That's the type of transformation
I think we're looking at. A
truly--
a rebirth of humanity,
so that-- in my work, I call it 'the
birth of the future human.' You know
it's truly a demarcation of a different
kind of human being emerging.
Now,
I think our history is creating this.
It's reincarnation, which is
coming to a phase of fruition.
And I think we can get insights,
or glimmers of what the future
will look like by looking at the great
beings of our past, the great saints,
the great prophets,
the great incarnations, the Christs,
the Buddhas, the prophets,
those great beings who have always called
us into a higher order of existence.
Those are prototypes, I think.
The prototypes which give us
an inclination and an understanding
of what we are in the process of becoming
as a species, collectively.
I think we are truly becoming
a species of Christs,
a species of Buddhas, a species
of prophets, you know,
with that magnitude,
that tremendous scale of heart.
I don't know how long it's going to
take us to make this transition.
Clearly, the ecological crisis,
which is fermenting, is a crisis that's
going to be deepening for generations.
It will be at least three
generations, four generations
before we hit
the peak of these-- of this crisis.
But I think we will come through it.
And I think we're not talking
thousands and thousands of years,
we're talking-- we have to make
this within a few hundred years
to make this transition.
And I think the 21st century
is the key century
of the unravelling - it is where we
make key choices that shape our future.
And one of the other things that happens
in non-equilibrium systems is that
individual changes, small changes
can catapult into massive outcomes.
So the butterfly,
whose wing in China sets off a hurricane
across the planet - that metaphor
that individuals who have
achieved within themselves
something of what humanity
is aspiring to change
for solving these large problems -
the impact of individuals
increases exponentially
in non-equilibrium systems.
So, just in contrast, if we look just
to the past we say, 'Well,
the individual can't do anything.
We're being overwhelmed by-- just
it's overwhelming historical forces are
coming at us.' It's just the opposite.
As things
intensify,
the individual becomes
more significant, a more
significant player.
So beings who achieve
a wholeness within their person,
they achieve
a robust
soul-consciousness in their person,
have a tremendous catalysing effect
on people around them,
coming to their own version
of that deep experience
as well.
Thank you.
I love listening to you,
when you go off on a transmission.
I was thinking,
you know, if you were to ask yourself
what one thing-- if there was one thing
that happened on this planet
that could change everything
quickly overnight,
what might that one thing be?
And
inside me the answer
was-- it is that for us to see
through the veil of death. You know,
because the moment
one person sees through the veil of death,
fear is no more, it just isn't.
There is no fear
because that's where fear resides.
So the intensification
of the energy you're talking
about, the suffering,
you know, the love,
all of it pouring towards this one
kind of point, this-- you know,
it's the only thing that has the power
to pierce that veil, that veil of death.
And so what I would expect,
and what I have sort of seen
through the Gene Keys and through
my teachings and transmissions,
is that more and more people
will gradually,
as this boiling takes place,
experience
their consciousness, you know,
having the ability to transcend
life, birth and death, that cycle of life,
you know. And be able to-- that
consciousness will retain the memory
between life, birth and death,
and carry it across.
And what that-- you know, because
that's pure awakening
and when a being has that layer-- that
level of awakening,
and they're sitting there manifesting,
or standing there just moving
around being who they are
and that is being emanated,
it is electrifying.
It's electrifying to anyone else,
it's catching, it's contagious.
You know, the transmission of wisdom,
and love, and awakening
is contagious, you know,
most people will know this.
You go near one of these beings and
you can feel it, it crackles in the air.
And so the more and more
that is occurring,
the more and more this veil
of-- will be breaking down.
And then fear will start to leave
this planet gradually,
person-by-person, person-by-person,
generation-by-generation.
And I even believe
deep inside myself that that will enable
children to come through,
to be born, without
the wound of humanity.
You know, just be born awake, you know,
and therefore
not have those-- not have to
go through this journey.
And, of course, those children are us,
those are our future vehicles,
and they will be born
through those awakened ones.
You know, because
if you have two awakened ones coming
together to bring a child,
then you have a clear conduit.
You know, and that's a vessel
that you might want to jump into,
to experience, and then
more, and more of that.
And that so, in a way,
you could almost perceive that that's how
the awakened consciousness
will colonise the gene pool
of humanity.
Literally
like a virus of love, you know,
it will just begin to spread.
And it's
non-denominational, it doesn't-- you know,
it's everywhere.
It's in the weirdest places,
it's in, you know, the
tiny little communities, because
it's everywhere.
It's not fixed on any chosen people,
you know, as in the past.
So it's going to wake up.
You know, I always like that
one-liner that Jesus left behind him
where he said, 'When I return,
I will return like a thief in the night,'
you know, and I contemplated
that for many, many years,
and one day I just saw that and I was
like, 'Oh, wow, yeah. It's coming,
you can't stop it, it's secret,
it's hidden, it's everywhere.
It's a thief in the night,
it's just going to arrive.'
And it's this,
you know, 'new human'
that we're talking about.
This is the new human
that we've both seen.
And I think many people are
sensing,
here already among us,
in its potential, like you
mentioned the Buddhas and things.
And one thing, probably that I loved more
than anything else in your book, Chris,
is when you describe the future human,
and I was left with this image
of all these Buddhas sitting down,
meditating and stuff,
and then this one human
standing in the middle of them,
standing on its own two feet,
and that was the future human.
And
I thought-- you know, I feel like that's
such an enduring,
iconic symbol of what's coming.
Because
we're no longer-- it's no longer
the journey of meditation and spiritual
awakening, and the spiritual journey
and this awakening through transformation
of the shadow,
suddenly that's come to an end,
and suddenly that being is standing.
You know, there's no practice anymore,
other than living.
And then
that human
really begins a new humanity, because
there's no more awakening process.
There are layers and layers of creative
expansion, always infinite
creative expansion.
And there's playfulness.
And there's
new layers of engagement
within the construct of reality.
You know, all these levels and dimensions
and fields that we can explore, you know,
through
a new way.
And what I really see
clearly is
as that's-- as the age
of suffering comes to an end,
you know, we have a new field,
and it's bliss.
You know, we have learned enough
from suffering, now is our chance
and opportunity to learn from bliss,
because bliss
is the other side of suffering.
It's the same, it's almost the same thing.
It's all that suffering leads to bliss.
And yet bliss is just the other
-- it's like the white hole to the black
hole, you know, it's like you go through
a black hole, you come out the other side,
there's this white hole
and it's-- and it has as much
depth and juice as suffering does.
You know, so
there's a similarity to them
but it's a new muse that humanity has.
So when we sit in that bliss,
and we move through that bliss,
we're moving through
the highest aspects of our consciousness,
and that then has to all be explored,
all of it. Because bliss, like suffering,
has layer, upon layer, upon layer,
upon layer, upon layer and dimension,
and dimension, and dimension.
And there's a whole epoch needed
again, just to explore bliss.
So
that's why, in a way,
if you can hold that
in your heart and your mind
as we move through these very difficult
decades ahead, and
century-- centuries,
perhaps few centuries - I agree,
by the way, 21st century
is-- seems to be the one,
the next century,
you know, seems to be the one
- and, you know, remember that's us.
You know, like, we'll be there.
And I mean, you know, I say to people,
'You don't want to miss this.'
You know, like,
people saying, like,
'This is my last incarnation.' Okay, well,
make sure you come back for that one,
because you don't want to do all
this and then not have the reward.
We're in it.
Yeah, so all things are
possible at that stage.
And I think it's really good to bear these
things in mind as we're moving
through, you know,
intense periods.
Let's allow ourselves
to look deep into the future
of this future human.
Because
whatever transformation we're going
through, and
we are going through, you know, we agree,
we're going through this
acute transformation.
We're giving birth to a new
order of human capacity.
However long it takes
us to do it, you know,
a few hundred years,
whatever,
the human story is not stopping,
the evolutionary drama is not ending.
This is simply going to be a new
platform
within which the human story
will continue to develop.
I think you're right that
we have been evolving
out of through learning from suffering,
that's been the great teacher
in much of our learning in the past.
But I think-- and I think you're
right, we are getting past that.
We are growing out of that, just as we
are growing out of our fear of death.
You know, if there were one thing that I
wish I could give people from my sessions,
it would be to lose the fear of death.
Because if you're afraid of death,
you just have your whole
cosmology upside down.
You just don't understand what's going on,
you know, death is graduation,
death is the great respite,
death is the great reward.
So we're coming into this period of deep
transformation, of living out of bliss,
living out of joy,
exploring out of bliss and joy.
And I think you're right, it's going
to take us a long time to experience
the levels and levels of creativity
that can come out of that.
So the divine project
has brought us to this crisis.
The evolutionary, natural,
however you want to envision,
the [inaudible] project has brought us
to this crisis is taking us through it.
We're not doing it.
I mean, this is much larger than you or I,
or any individual collection of people.
Nature is driving us
through this metamorphosis.
Nature has just decided we're ready, we're
time, we're going through this thing.
New platform, new beginning.
But it's not going to stop.
We're here for another million years.
We're here for another billion years.
So I think we should really look deeply at
understanding that we're
not only talking about
a kind of new humanity as we can imagine
it now, from our limited position -
we're talking about a new humanity beyond
our capacity to imagine,
because it is so different.
One of the things that happened
at the very-- the last vision I was given,
the last session
is the session that I call 'diamond
vision', because in the session
I was given a ten-minute experience
of being able to see
1000 times more clearly, more precisely,
more exactly, with more discrimination
than I'd ever been able to see before.
It wasn't a hallucination,
it was just absolutely--
I could not imagine that I had accepted
the dull experience of ordinary
vision as real vision.
And when it disappeared, I realised
I had been given an experience
of seeing the way the future human,
that all future humans, will see.
This isn't just a transformation of our
heart and a transformation of our mind,
it's a transformation of our senses,
that our touch and taste
and vision and hearing
is going to be more and more refined,
more subtle, more exquisite.
The capacity of consciousness
to heal the body, to keep it on an even
keel, to transform it, the capacity
of consciousness to infuse and lift
the body into ecstatic
states of creativity, I mean
we're just getting started
into actualising some of the higher
potentials that are already
built into the human form,
but are being activated by this
evolutionary process, setting us on fire.
And then the question becomes - well,
what might lie down the road?
And we could lose ourselves
in maybe projections and fantasies about
that, but the only thing that's really
important is to understand, I think,
the high stakes of what's involved here.
We're not trying to simply
fix or heal humanity.
We are on the threshold
of birthing a different order
of human existence,
which is going to become the new platform
for yet still more higher
orders of human existence.
This is a hugely significant
undertaking that we are about.
It's not simply trying to
rectify a short-term pass.
It's a cascading effect
into a very, very different future.
It's a very high-stakes game,
with very, very great rewards
that are coming in this time.
If our nature is truly infinite,
as I think we agree it is,
if Brahman and-- Brahman is Atman,
the essence of the individual
is the essence of the Divine,
our nature is infinite,
then reincarnation gives us
an infinite amount of time
in order to unfold, and to activate,
our infinite nature.
I think
if we qualify it carefully,
we are learning to be gods.
We are learning how to create on a scale
that we've never envisioned except
in our mythologies, or in our
science-fiction mythologies.
So true, so true. And
one of the things that I have seen, and
my way of describing that mythology, is
you know, we are-- and I'm not the first
person to explore this, you know,
it's these different species or races
that are kind of evolving on our planet.
And we've been through these before,
actually. You know, so-- and we're part of
a much deeper
epoch story than we realise.
And we may have even
forgotten previous epochs.
And
because of the break in continuity between
epochs is so massive, you know, so--
but each time we go through one of these
portals, we include and transcend more
of, and we remember
more of what came before.
So I feel that's also potential,
that we remember more of what came before
as we move into what we're becoming.
And,
in a way, from my understanding,
is that this is almost like the final
stage or cresting of humanity's epoch.
You know, because
it then moves into,
you know, the culmination of this next -
since we're looking far, far, far, far
ahead - the culmination of
this next species
is our collective
harmony with the whole of Gaia.
It's coming into absolute
harmony with the entirety of Gaia.
So taking our highest seat as
the consciousness of Gaia,
and as the gardeners of Gaia,
as the stewards of Gaia, you know, as
inseparable from the tiniest ant.
And, you know, like, everything
being part of our highest
capacity here, and the beauty of Gaia.
So we haven't yet seen - you know,
maybe at the very beginning
- we haven't yet seen Gaia, you know,
in her flowered-- flowering state,
fully flowering. You know,
with all her essences just released
in perfect harmony, and us
being able to move through the garden and
sup the nectars of everything here,
all of that.
And each animal, and each creature,
and each having their place, you know,
within us,
because they have a place within us.
We are, you know, there is no
separation anymore.
And so there's this incredible
crystallisation of the harmony of all
the architecture of life on Gaia.
And my feeling is that this next
phase of our evolution
is about the weaving together of Gaia,
of all those creatures and things,
and understand-- so every
one of us has a specific
weaving role in that, to weave
back together
certain neurological pathways that are
unique to us, that only we could weave,
because only our creativity
wants to go there.
So we follow our creativity and it weaves
together some aspect of Gaia.
And then all of us together doing
that creates this beautiful
tapestry of wholeness.
And the other aspect to this that I've
seen is as the process continues,
there's a timeline.
It's very strange.
It's almost like a spiral,
the arc of time.
And as we get closer and closer towards
perfection,
the timeline closes in on itself
more and more and more, so in a way
time itself is being condensed.
And when you get to that final
- this is a lovely joke
- when you get to that final
crystallisation point of perfection,
time itself dissolves.
So, in a way, my joke is that when
you finally get to heaven,
it stops.
Everything stops!
It's like it's finished. It would look
like from our vantage like, 'Well,
there's no time to enjoy it.' But
actually, there's infinite time.
Infinite time, yeah.
So that's when humanity
finally transcends humanity. You know,
and then there's another one of those
epoch shifts, in which-- and, you know,
and it's beyond our comprehension.
You might even say
we then leave this sphere.
Our consciousness then
moves to another sphere,
and Gaia is left
with-- you know,
she's not left alone, because
it's a chain, right.
So now the animals start to kind
of crystallise, and their evolution
starts to continue and [inaudible].
So everything ratchets up.
And even the rocks and the minerals
are kind of moving up a layer.
Everything is interconnected, so
consciousness is embedded in everything,
but it awakens in these layers,
in these contractions.
And then we move somewhere else,
somewhere, you know, somewhen else.
We're beyond the time-space continuum,
that we've graduated from this
chain of evolution, this epoch.
You know, it's-- and then we
suddenly we're in this-- 'ah'.
We realise we're nested as part
of something far wider, because we've
remembered, 'Oh, we're galactic!'
Gaia was just, like, our playground,
our-- that was another birth,
and then we're in a galactic
world.
And so it goes on, and so it
goes on, and so it goes on,
but that's-- You know, when
you go far, far, far ahead
and it, like, I know you've
been there, Chris, it's so--
the tapestries are so vast,
that-- but they're fractal, right?
So they're repeated right down.
So when you look at-- you know,
it's like Blake saying,
you know, 'eternity in the-- in a grain
of sand, in a wild flower', you know,
it's like, it's in everything.
The same fractal patterning is
embedded in all-- at all levels.
So it's just
these waves of wider and wider
awakening and creativity.
And
that's, you know, that's where we're
-- that's where we're going
and that's where we are.
And we never leave the present moment,
that's the beauty,
we never leave the freedom of the present
moment, even when we're in crisis.
You know, and that's what's going
to become-- in a way,
for me the most important thing
is that as the crisis comes,
we never leave the present moment and we
never forget where we're going.
You know, that this is all for a purpose.
So that is the-- you know, when we have
to swallow the pill of suffering,
of intense suffering, that's the other
pill we take, the kind of-- the medicine
that reminds us that the suffering
is-- is it has Grace embedded in it.
Yeah.
I love hearing you go.
When you go, you really go.
And I love because
I feel so deeply resonant
with what you're describing. That
this Earth,
this solar system is part of a galaxy,
which is part of a super
-cluster of galaxies.
Time-space is part of a universe which is
part of a larger meta-universe,
which is part of another larger universe.
We are going through this very, very
exciting, very important transformation.
Humanity is going through this
tremendous transformation.
And yet there are other species around
the galaxy going through
their own transformations.
And so we don't have to deny any of that,
we can affirm all of that while also
paying tremendous attention
to what's taking place.
How do we
take full advantage of the growth
opportunity that this time
in history is giving us right here?
Because
my understanding is we
choose our incarnations.
So that everyone who listens to this video
chose to be in history
right here, right now.
They chose to be part of this traumatic
moment, this birth moment, this
ecstatic exploding moment in history.
They chose to be part of it.
And they are exactly
where they chose to be in order to have
the greatest impact on positive outcome.
It's not a matter of searching for
what should I do, or how do I respond?
Look under our feet.
We are already planted.
We have the talents.
We have the relationships around us.
We are already where we can do the most
good if we're willing to take
responsibility and act, and really do it.
And that's what you're
talking about being centred
in your-- we know when we're centred
in our role in life,
we know when we're centred in our work,
even if we're suffering at that moment,
we have a deep confidence
that this is what we are to do.
There'll be so many distractions
being offered to us to not pay attention.
Distract ourselves with movies, distract
ourselves with this, that and the other.
It's-- and when things get hard,
it's going to be very
inviting to be elsewhere.
But if we are really here,
right here, right now, putting
all of our endeavour into this moment,
that is the fastest way to move through
the harder part and into the joy,
into the bliss, into the cooperation,
into the collaborations,
into the opportunities for our individual
work, to be-- to meet with fellows
on the journey and compound
into larger and larger projects.
We won't get there by allowing
ourselves to be distracted.
We get there by complete commitment to our
circumstances, where we are as we are.
And I think you're right,
in that deep penetration of the present,
we get glimpses and touches and tingles
of the whole
structure, of the meta-universe,
which is also pouring its-- all
of its energy into the present.
We meet heaven
only in the present.
We meet the galactic superstructure
in the present, in this moment,
in this grand kind of collaboration
with destiny.
So we wandered a long way from our early
talking about what's
the evidence for reincarnation.
But
the communion with the universe is what
drives both of us, I think.
Deep communion, the opportunities
for deepening the communion,
for letting go of all the things that get
in our way and going into
a deep sharing of the divine breath,
a deep communion of the divine joy.
To really let it in as deeply as we can
possibly let it in, in the years that we
have remaining, and then our next
incarnation, and our next incarnation.
Beautiful, Chris.
Thank you.
I don't think I could
add anything to that.
I think we've-- I don't think there's
anything else needs to be said.
Is there?
Maybe not here and now, but certainly
in another time, in another place.
We'll wind it up again and we'll launch.
I love our discussions.
I love [inaudible] with you.
I love what happens when we get together.
Me too.
And I think,
you know, our various
different communities will
hopefully come together, and explore
these things in new and creative ways.
That's certainly, I think, my intention,
to continue this
dialogue in all kinds of different ways
and to invite others
also into this dialogue,
to explore, to create, to come up with,
you know, proactive, creative
routes forwards in the world, depending,
you know, what is coming to us.
And,
you know, there's a lot of great
genius that's being drawn to these kinds
of discussions and these communities.
And
when the genius comes together,
it's capable of so much.
And I know that
many, many hearts are wanting
to come together and be of service,
as you said,
to be of the greatest service.
So,
I think there will be opportunities for
lots of things in the times ahead.
So I want to really personally thank you
for being a great inspiration
to me, and for--
And likewise, really.
Confirming many of my deep held knowings.
And kind of matching me along the journey.
And, you know, and sometimes
just really pushing me a little bit
further as well,
so I really appreciate that.
Likewise, it works both ways.
Much love and blessings in your work.
And it's just a joy to spend
time with you, it truly is.
It opens me up, invites me forward,
I receive much from our conversations.
Likewise.
Absolutely.